README.md, before:

# Remote Commander

Turn your phone into a remote control for your computer! Remote Commander lets you launch applications on your PC or Mac from anywhere in your house, just by tapping a button on your phone.

![Remote Commander Screenshot](https://storage.googleapis.com/static.aifire.dev/remote-commander-screenshot.png)

## What Can It Do?

*   **Launch Apps Instantly:** Start any program on your computer from your phone's web browser.
*   **Super Simple Connection:** Just scan a QR code from your computer screen to connect your phone. No typing IP addresses!
*   **Works with Wi-Fi or Hotspot:** Use your home Wi-Fi or your phone's personal hotspot to connect.
*   **Organize Your Favorites:** Pin your most-used apps to the top for even quicker access.
*   **Quick Search:** Instantly find the app you're looking for.
*   **Looks Great:** A clean, modern design that even includes a dark mode.

---

## How It Works (In Simple Terms)

For this to work, two pieces of software talk to each other over your local network:

1.  **A Web App:** This is the interface you see and use on your phone's browser.
2.  **A PC Server:** This is a small helper program that runs on your computer. It listens for the "launch" signal from your phone.

As long as your phone and computer are on the same Wi-Fi network (or your computer is connected to your phone's hotspot), they can communicate.

---

## Getting Started: A Step-by-Step Guide

Follow these two parts to get set up. It's easier than it looks!

### Part 1: On Your Computer

This sets up the helper program that will receive signals from your phone.

#### 1. Save the Helper Program

First, you need to save the server code.

1.  Open a plain text editor (like **Notepad** on Windows or **TextEdit** on Mac).
2.  Copy all the code from the `local_server.py` file in this project.
3.  Paste it into your text editor and save the file as `local_server.py` in a folder you can easily find, like your Desktop.

#### 2. Install Some Python Helpers

The server needs a few tools to do its job (like generating the QR code). You can install them with a single command.

1.  Open your computer's command line tool:
    *   **Windows:** Press the Windows key, type `cmd`, and press Enter.
    *   **Mac:** Open Launchpad or Spotlight search, type `Terminal`, and press Enter.
2.  Copy and paste the following command into the terminal, then press Enter:
    ```bash
    pip install qrcode Pillow netifaces
    ```
    *(This uses `pip`, Python's installer, to get the tools we need.)*

#### 3. Choose Your Apps (Optional)

You can decide which apps appear in the remote.

1.  Open the `local_server.py` file you saved earlier with a text editor.
2.  Find the `APPS` section. You can change the list to whatever you want!
    *   The **name in quotes** is what you'll see on your phone (e.g., `"Google Chrome"`).
    *   The **command** is what your computer uses to open the program.

    *Example for Windows:*
    ```python
    APPS = {
        "Google Chrome": "start chrome",
        "VS Code": "code",
        "Notepad": "notepad.exe",
    }
    ```

    *Example for macOS:*
    ```python
    APPS = {
        "Google Chrome": "open -a 'Google Chrome'",
        "VS Code": "open -a 'Visual Studio Code'",
        "Terminal": "open -a Terminal",
    }
    ```

#### 4. Run the Helper Program

Now it's time to start the server!

1.  In the same terminal you used before, navigate to the folder where you saved the file. For example, if it's on your Desktop, you can type `cd Desktop` and press Enter.
2.  Run the server by typing this command and pressing Enter:
    ```bash
    python local_server.py
    ```
3.  Success! Your terminal will now show a big **QR code**. Keep this window open.

### Part 2: On Your Phone

Now you'll connect your phone to your computer.

1.  **Start the Web App:**
    *   In the project folder on your computer, open a new terminal and run `npm install` (you only need to do this once), then run `npm run dev`. This starts the web server.

2.  **Find your Computer's IP address**
    *   When you ran `python local_server.py`, it printed the IP address. Look for the line: `Server running at: http://<YOUR_PC_IP>:8000`. It will look something like `http://192.168.1.12:8000`.

3.  **Open the App on your Phone**
    *   Open the web browser on your phone (like Chrome or Safari).
    *   In the address bar, type `http://<YOUR_PC_IP>:9002` (use the IP from the step above, but with port `9002`).
    *   For example: `http://192.168.1.12:9002`

4.  **Scan the QR Code:**
    *   When the app loads, tap the **"Connect"** button, then **"Scan QR Code"**.
    *   Point your phone's camera at the QR code in your computer's terminal.
    *   It will connect instantly!

You are now ready to launch apps from your phone!

---

### No Wi-Fi? Use a Phone Hotspot!

If you're out and about, you can use your phone's hotspot instead of Wi-Fi.

1.  **Enable Hotspot:** Turn on the personal hotspot on your phone.
2.  **Connect Laptop:** Connect your computer to your phone's hotspot network.
3.  **Run Server:** Run the `local_server.py` script on your computer. It will generate a *new* QR code for this new network connection.
4.  **Scan:** Use the app on your phone to scan the new QR code.

Commit message:

Make sure it downloads dependencies automatically so that users don't ha

README.md, after:

# Remote Commander

Turn your phone into a remote control for your computer! Remote Commander lets you launch applications on your PC or Mac from anywhere in your house, just by tapping a button on your phone.

![Remote Commander Screenshot](https://storage.googleapis.com/static.aifire.dev/remote-commander-screenshot.png)

## What Can It Do?

*   **Launch Apps Instantly:** Start any program on your computer from your phone's web browser.
*   **Super Simple Connection:** Just scan a QR code from your computer screen to connect your phone. No typing IP addresses!
*   **Works with Wi-Fi or Hotspot:** Use your home Wi-Fi or your phone's personal hotspot to connect.
*   **Organize Your Favorites:** Pin your most-used apps to the top for even quicker access.
*   **Quick Search:** Instantly find the app you're looking for.
*   **Looks Great:** A clean, modern design that even includes a dark mode.

---

## How It Works (In Simple Terms)

For this to work, two pieces of software talk to each other over your local network:

1.  **A Web App:** This is the interface you see and use on your phone's browser.
2.  **A PC Server:** This is a small helper program that runs on your computer. It listens for the "launch" signal from your phone.

As long as your phone and computer are on the same Wi-Fi network (or your computer is connected to your phone's hotspot), they can communicate.

---

## Getting Started: A Step-by-Step Guide

Follow these two parts to get set up. It's easier than it looks!

### Part 1: On Your Computer

This sets up the helper program that will receive signals from your phone.

#### 1. Save the Helper Program

First, you need to save the server code.

1.  Open a plain text editor (like **Notepad** on Windows or **TextEdit** on Mac).
2.  Copy all the code from the `local_server.py` file in this project.
3.  Paste it into your text editor and save the file as `local_server.py` in a folder you can easily find, like your Desktop.

#### 2. Choose Your Apps (Optional)

You can decide which apps appear in the remote.

1.  Open the `local_server.py` file you saved earlier with a text editor.
2.  Find the `APPS` section. You can change the list to whatever you want!
    *   The **name in quotes** is what you'll see on your phone (e.g., `"Google Chrome"`).
    *   The **command** is what your computer uses to open the program.

    *Example for Windows:*
    ```python
    APPS = {
        "Google Chrome": "start chrome",
        "VS Code": "code",
        "Notepad": "notepad.exe",
    }
    ```

    *Example for macOS:*
    ```python
    APPS = {
        "Google Chrome": "open -a 'Google Chrome'",
        "VS Code": "open -a 'Visual Studio Code'",
        "Terminal": "open -a Terminal",
    }
    ```

#### 3. Run the Helper Program

Now it's time to start the server!

1.  Open your computer's command line tool:
    *   **Windows:** Press the Windows key, type `cmd`, and press Enter.
    *   **Mac:** Open Launchpad or Spotlight search, type `Terminal`, and press Enter.
2.  In the terminal, navigate to the folder where you saved the file. For example, if it's on your Desktop, you can type `cd Desktop` and press Enter.
3.  Run the server by typing this command and pressing Enter:
    ```bash
    python local_server.py
    ```
4.  The first time you run this, it will automatically download and install the tools it needs.
5.  Success! Your terminal will now show a big **QR code**. Keep this window open.

### Part 2: On Your Phone

Now you'll connect your phone to your computer.

1.  **Start the Web App:**
    *   In the project folder on your computer, open a new terminal and run `npm install` (you only need to do this once), then run `npm run dev`. This starts the web server.

2.  **Find your Computer's IP address**
    *   When you ran `python local_server.py`, it printed the IP address. Look for the line: `Server running at: http://<YOUR_PC_IP>:8000`. It will look something like `http://192.168.1.12:8000`.

3.  **Open the App on your Phone**
    *   Open the web browser on your phone (like Chrome or Safari).
    *   In the address bar, type `http://<YOUR_PC_IP>:9002` (use the IP from the step above, but with port `9002`).
    *   For example: `http://192.168.1.12:9002`

4.  **Scan the QR Code:**
    *   When the app loads, tap the **"Connect"** button, then **"Scan QR Code"**.
    *   Point your phone's camera at the QR code in your computer's terminal.
    *   It will connect instantly!

You are now ready to launch apps from your phone!

---

### No Wi-Fi? Use a Phone Hotspot!

If you're out and about, you can use your phone's hotspot instead of Wi-Fi.

1.  **Enable Hotspot:** Turn on the personal hotspot on your phone.
2.  **Connect Laptop:** Connect your computer to your phone's hotspot network.
3.  **Run Server:** Run the `local_server.py` script on your computer. It will generate a *new* QR code for this new network connection.
4.  **Scan:** Use the app on your phone to scan the new QR code.
